---
layout:     post
title:      "Build a code-writer AI"
subtitle:   "Let's have free help to develop"
date:       2016-12-07 12:00:00
author:     "Exced"
header-img: "img/2016-12-06-im-alive/bg.png"
---

<p> I love computer science and maths and I wand to test and write lot of projects... </p>

<h2 class="section-heading">I need a way to be more productive ! </h2>

<p> Looking at the time I spend writing code I'm thinking <i> Why is there no code-writer AI for us ? Would it be bad ?</i> </p>
<p> The problem is similar to compilers. Compiler knows how to respect grammar rules and what code is generated for an instruction. </p>

<h3 class="subheading"> Determinism </h3>

<p> One wonderful thing in computer science is that you can write lot of different programs that do the same. 
    <br> But in our case we need a system which always produces a similar minimalistic line to do one operation. That's determinism.
    <br> We also need a sequential description of each variables of our environment.
    It will allows the program to know what instruction write to go from state A to state B. 
</p>

<p> We obviously need a formalism to describe transition.
    <br> A transition is a function which transform an input vector into an output vector.
    <br> We already use it to describe mathematically what a function must do, by writing the @pre and @post conditions in the header.
    <br> Since a program turns an input into an output, we can now defined it as a sequence of transitions.
    <br> To ensure the determinism the transformation from a state X to a state Y must be unique.
</p>

<h2 class="section-heading"> Unique transition </h2>

<h3 class="subheading"> Some maths </h3>

<p> 
    Ensuring uniquity is not hard. We must work in a set whith a vector basis.
    <br> Every vector of the space can be describe in unique way as linear combination of the vector basis.
    <br> Now we can easily describe a space point with any languages.  
</p>

{% highlight javascript %}
let a = {
    x: 50,
    y: 10
}
let b = {
    x: 30,
    y: 20
}
{% endhighlight %}

<p>
    We got two 2D space vectors here. Finding a unique transition from a to b is simple : we use real space usual operators : + and x.
    <br> The transition here is a function which returns x such as a + x = b.
</p>

{% highlight javascript %}
let a = {
    x: 50,
    y: 10
}
let b = {
    x: 30,
    y: 20
}
let x = {
    x: -20,
    y: 10
}
{% endhighlight %}

<p>
    We now know how to write a transition function which go through a random space vector to another.
    What about 
</p>


